maathai_llamma/README.md, before:

# Maathai `llama.cpp` Flutter Plugin

This plugin packages [`llama.cpp`](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp) so Flutter apps can load GGUF models and chat fully offline. The initial release focuses on Android (NDK-based build), with room to extend to other targets.

## Directory Layout

- `lib/`: Dart API exposing initialize → loadModel → generate → release lifecycle.
- `android/`: Native bridge (`maathai_llamma_bridge.cpp`) builds `llama.cpp` and exposes JNI entry points.
- `extern/llama.cpp`: Git submodule tracking upstream inference runtime.
- `example/`: Flutter UI that lets you pick a local model path and exchange prompts.

## Prerequisites (Android)

1. **Android Studio / SDK** with NDK `26.1.10909125` and CMake `3.22.1`.
2. **Flutter 3.3+** with compatible Dart SDK.
3. GGUF model stored locally on the device/emulator.

## Build Steps

```powershell
git clone https://github.com/your-org/maathai_llamma.git
cd maathai_llamma
git submodule update --init --recursive
flutter pub get
```

To validate the plugin and example:

```powershell
cd example
flutter run --device-id <your-device>
```

The build will compile `llama.cpp` for each Android ABI via CMake and bundle the shared library `libmaathai_llamma.so`.

## Runtime Workflow

1. `MaathaiLlamma.initialize()` — calls `llama_backend_init` once per process.
2. `loadModel(modelPath, contextLength, threads, gpuLayers)` — loads a GGUF model, configures context size & thread count, and prepares a sampler chain (temperature + top-k/top-p).
3. `generate(prompt, maxTokens)` — sends the prompt to the native side, runs a decoding loop, and returns sampled tokens as a string.
4. `release()` — frees model, context, and sampler.

See `example/lib/main.dart` for an end-to-end chat UI.

## Android Integration Tips

- The plugin builds against `c++_shared`. If your host app already includes another STL, align them to avoid duplicate symbols.
- Ensure ABI folders (`android/src/main/jniLibs/<abi>`) contain `libc++_shared.so` or rely on Gradle packaging from the NDK.
- For large models, expect high memory pressure. Prefer quantized (Q4/Q5) variants for mid-range devices.

## Roadmap

- [ ] iOS/macOS support via upstream XCFramework.
- [ ] Streaming token events via `EventChannel`.
- [ ] Model metadata inspection in Dart.
- [ ] Integration tests with on-device smoke model.

Contributions welcome! Open an issue or PR to discuss enhancements.




## Licensing

- Core code in this repository is provided under the Maathai Community License v1.0, which is based on Apache-2.0 but limited to Non-Commercial Use below a $1,000,000 USD annual revenue threshold.
- For Commercial Use at or above the threshold, please obtain a commercial license from Maathai. Contact: support@usemaathai.com or visit https://usemaathai.com.
- Third-party components (e.g., `extern/llama.cpp`) are licensed under their respective terms and are not affected by the non-commercial clause. See `THIRD_PARTY_NOTICES.md`.

Commit message:

Update default maxTokens to 512 for generation methods and adjust related documentation and examples. Implement safety cap for token generation and enhance error handling in model management. Refactor loading and importing states in the UI for better user experience.

maathai_llamma/README.md, after:

# Maathai `llama.cpp` Flutter Plugin

This plugin packages [`llama.cpp`](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp) so Flutter apps can load GGUF models and chat fully offline. The initial release focuses on Android (NDK-based build), with room to extend to other targets.

## Directory Layout

- `lib/`: Dart API exposing initialize → loadModel → generate → release lifecycle.
- `android/`: Native bridge (`maathai_llamma_bridge.cpp`) builds `llama.cpp` and exposes JNI entry points.
- `extern/llama.cpp`: Git submodule tracking upstream inference runtime.
- `example/`: Flutter UI that lets you pick a local model path and exchange prompts.

## Prerequisites (Android)

1. **Android Studio / SDK** with NDK `26.1.10909125` and CMake `3.22.1`.
2. **Flutter 3.3+** with compatible Dart SDK.
3. GGUF model stored locally on the device/emulator.

## Build Steps

```powershell
git clone https://github.com/your-org/maathai_llamma.git
cd maathai_llamma
git submodule update --init --recursive
flutter pub get
```

To validate the plugin and example:

```powershell
cd example
flutter run --device-id <your-device>
```

The build will compile `llama.cpp` for each Android ABI via CMake and bundle the shared library `libmaathai_llamma.so`.

## Runtime Workflow

1. `MaathaiLlamma.initialize()` — calls `llama_backend_init` once per process.
2. `loadModel(modelPath, contextLength, threads, gpuLayers)` — loads a GGUF model, configures context size & thread count, and prepares a sampler chain (temperature + top-k/top-p).
3. `generate(prompt, {maxTokens})` — sends the prompt to the native side, runs a decoding loop, and returns sampled tokens as a string. The Dart API now defaults `maxTokens` to 512, but passing `0` (or any value ≤0) lets the model continue until EOS or until an internal safety cap (1024 tokens or the remaining context, whichever is smaller).
4. `release()` — frees model, context, and sampler.

See `example/lib/main.dart` for an end-to-end chat UI.

## Android Integration Tips

- The plugin builds against `c++_shared`. If your host app already includes another STL, align them to avoid duplicate symbols.
- Ensure ABI folders (`android/src/main/jniLibs/<abi>`) contain `libc++_shared.so` or rely on Gradle packaging from the NDK.
- For large models, expect high memory pressure. Prefer quantized (Q4/Q5) variants for mid-range devices.

## Roadmap

- [ ] iOS/macOS support via upstream XCFramework.
- [ ] Streaming token events via `EventChannel`.
- [ ] Model metadata inspection in Dart.
- [ ] Integration tests with on-device smoke model.

Contributions welcome! Open an issue or PR to discuss enhancements.




## Licensing

- Core code in this repository is provided under the Maathai Community License v1.0, which is based on Apache-2.0 but limited to Non-Commercial Use below a $1,000,000 USD annual revenue threshold.
- For Commercial Use at or above the threshold, please obtain a commercial license from Maathai. Contact: support@usemaathai.com or visit https://usemaathai.com.
- Third-party components (e.g., `extern/llama.cpp`) are licensed under their respective terms and are not affected by the non-commercial clause. See `THIRD_PARTY_NOTICES.md`.
